
Connect to a PPTP VPN using Linux. In order to connect to a VPN, you will need to install the Network Manager applet. Most Linux distributions come with this preinstalled, but you will still need to install a plugin specific to the type of VPN you are connecting to. Your VPN administrator can tell you the type of VPN you are using.
Download the Network Manager applet and plugin. You can install both the applet and the plugin at the same time with the following command. Note, this is for PPTP VPN connections, the most common type for home users and small businesses:
sudo apt-get install network-manager-gnome network-manager-pptp
If you already have the Network Manager applet and just need the plugin, remove network-manager-gnome from the above command.
Once the installation is complete, restart the applet with the command:
sudo Network Manager restart
Click on the Network Manager icon. Select the VPN tab. Click the Add button to create a new VPN connection.
Enter your VPN information. In the “Gateway” field, enter the IP address or domain of the VPN that you are connecting to. Enter the username and password that you received into the appropriate boxes.
Click the advanced button. You will need to make a few settings adjustments before you can connect.
Uncheck PAP and EAP in the Authentication field.
Check CHAP, MSCHAP, and MSCAPv2 in the Authentication field.
Check the “Use Point-to-Point encryption (MPPE)” box.
Select 128-bit encryption in the Security pulldown menu.
Check “Allow stateful encryption” and “Send PPP echo packets”. Uncheck everything else.
Connect to the VPN. Once you are finished making changes, right-click on the Network Manager icon and select your VPN. You may need to restart your computer before this appears.[3]
